Welcome to the project overview. For this capstone project, you will assume the role of a front-end developer hired by a non-profit
organization to develop a medical appointment
booking website. You'll be presented with the project scenario
that requires you to build the website that meets the business's
requirements. Ready to see a demo of an exemplary website
with functionalities like what you will
create as part of this capstone? Let's begin. When a user accesses the
website using a URL, they will see a landing page. This landing page has
a navigation bar with options to navigate through the different features
of the website, such as login, sign up, appointments, and reviews. Let's get started. This brings us to the website's
service offerings. There are four services. The first two services, instant consultation and
book an appointment, are available to
registered users. However, self checkup
and health tips and guidance are services
available to all users. The contents of the
health tips and guidance show several tips. Let's return to the services. Let's try booking
an appointment. Notice how the Login
page is displayed. This confirms that a
user must be logged in to access the appointment
booking feature. Let's create a new user. You can click the
"Sign Up Here" link or the "Sign Up" button
on the navigation bar. Let's click "Sign Up Here." On the Sign Up page, you must complete
several details, which will be stored
in a database. You can sign up as a
doctor or a patient. It is also mandatory to
complete all the fields. Each field has
validation rules set. For example, the name
field cannot be blank. An error will be
displayed if you leave the field blank
and try to submit. Similarly, the phone
number, email address, and password have
different validation rules and associated error messages. The email address is the unique identifier
for the user record. The password field also
has the show/hide feature, which allows you to
view the password. You can view your password using the show/hide toggle icon. Let's click "Submit" to
create the user account. If the sign-up is successful, you are automatically
returned to the landing page, logged into the website, and your registered name will display as part of
the navigation bar. Let's log out of the website
and try logging in again. The Login page displays. You will need to enter your
registered email address and password, then click "Login". Voila. With valid credentials, you are logged into the website. Let's return to the
available services. Let's schedule an
appointment with a doctor for a future date. Let's click "Book
an Appointment." The Find a Doctor
page is displayed. You can look up available
doctors based on specialty. When you click in the
Search Doctors field, a list of specialties
are displayed. Selecting the required
specialty displays the available doctors. Each doctor's card
provides their name, specialty, years of experience, and overall feedback rating. You can select a doctor
based on your preference. A form to book an
appointment is displayed. Fill in the required details, including the patient's
name, phone number, date of appointment, and the time slot from
the available slots, then click "Book Now." If the appointment
is successful, a notification with all
the details appears. Notice that the
notification appears on every website page and remains visible for
the current session. Returning to the
Appointment Booking page, let's see what happens when
we cancel the appointment. The cancel appointment form appears with all the
appointment details. Let's cancel the appointment by clicking the "Cancel
Appointment" button. The notification disappears and the doctor's card displays
the book appointment option. Next, let's look at how
instant consultation works. This feature will
help patients get immediate access to
available doctors. You will follow steps similar
to appointment booking. You will search for available
doctors by specialty, for example, gynecologist,
obstetrician. From the list of
available doctors, select the preferred doctor. In the instant
consultation form, notice that there
are only two fields for name and phone number. There are no options to
select a date or time slot. Fill in the details, then click "Book Now." The appointment is
booked for now. You have the option to cancel
the appointment as well. On successful cancellation, the instant consultation form
displays with blank fields. Clicking anywhere
outside the form will exit you out of the form. StayHealthy, the
patients, and the doctors need to understand if any improvements or
changes are required. You can provide feedback for any doctor you consulted
on the Review page. Let's try this feature by
clicking "Give Review." A feedback form displays where you can provide
the patient's name, comments about the
consultation, and the rating. After you submit the feedback, the comments are displayed
in the review given column, and the Give Review
button is disabled, indicating that you
can only provide one review per consultation. Being a medical appointment
booking website, users may want easy access
to their medical reports. This functionality on
this exemplar site is available under
the user's profile. Notice the menu that appears. Let's access the Reports page by clicking the "Your
Reports" option. The Reports page is displayed. This page is like
the Reviews page; it allows you to either view a report or download the report. The report will open
in a different tab. The report is downloaded
in PDF format. To access the profile details, click the username next
to the Logout button. From the drop-down menu,
click "Your Profile." The name, email ID, and phone number are displayed. Let's edit the details. Since the email ID is
the unique identifier, it is a read-only field. You can update the name
and the phone number. After making the required
changes, click "Save." If the update is successful, a message is displayed. Click OK to confirm. You are returned to
the landing page. Let's check if the
update is reflected. Let's navigate to
the profile details. The name and the phone
number are updated. Let's now look at the last
service, self checkup. Several self checkup
topics are available. To view the complete
information about a topic, you can click the
"Read More" button. The details are displayed. To minimize the information, click the button again. With that, we come to the
end of this exemplar demo. We hope you enjoyed the
demo and are looking forward to this
capstone where you will have the opportunity to build a creative medical
appointment booking website. All the best.